Update publish-and-share.qmd (#414)
ubvu/open-handbook: guides/publish-and-share.qmd

VU Amsterdam requests that researchers archive the data used in a publication in a repository for at least ten years after the release of the publication (see also [VU Policies & Regulations](../guides/plan-and-design.qmd#policies-regulations)). There are a lot of digital archives and many more keep appearing.  
  
The right archival option depends on the nature of the data and the field of science as described in faculty or departmental data management policy documents. The university offers 2 different general repositories for data archiving. The RDM Support Desk and faculty data stewards can help researchers with the selection of a repository that meets all the relevant criteria of privacy (sensitivity), dataset size, etc.

> 1. [DataverseNL](https://dataverse.nl/dataverse/vuamsterdam) - an online platform for the publication of citable research data in a semi-open environment. DataverseNL allows users to link publications to datasets directly, and to share the data through online archives such as DANS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. [DataverseNL](../topics/dataversenl.qmd) - an online platform for the publication of citable research data in a semi-open environment. DataverseNL allows users to link publications to datasets directly, and to share the data through online archives such as DANS.
```

There can be various reasons to decide to use a different repository, including funder requirements, preferences of research partners, and a repository being a common choice in your field. For example, Dutch archaeologists mostly use [DANS Data Stations](https://dans.knaw.nl/en/data-stations/archaeology/) to deposit and publish their data. Using a repository that is a common choice in your field will make your data more findable for your colleagues and increase the visibility of your work as a researcher. Some of the data repositories most commonly used in the Netherlands include:

> * [DANS Data Stations](https://dans.knaw.nl/en/): a domain-agnostic research data repository hosted by the Data Archiving and Networked Services, an institute of NWO and KNAW. DANS also develops policies, services and new infrastructures for research data and provides researchers with advice on how to preserve their data. VU researchers are also welcome to deposit their data at DANS Data Stations;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [DANS Data Stations](https://dans.knaw.nl/en/): a collection of four domain-specific repositories hosted by the Data Archiving and Networked Services (DANS), an institute of NWO and KNAW (Koninklijke Nederlandse Akademie van Wetenschappen). They have Data Stations for Social Sciences and Humanities, Archaeology, Life Sciences, and Physical and Technical Sciences. DANS also develops policies, services and new infrastructures for research data and provides researchers with advice on how to preserve their data. VU researchers are also welcome to deposit their data at DANS Data Stations;
```
